It doesn't matter much at all what you believe about vaccines until we invent really important ones, you know, until we have a pandemic that's killing everyone, you know, and, you know, it's, it's not, it's, you know, measles plus, you know, okay, I can tolerate what you think about measles because, you know, not that many people die from it.
It's just a big hassle in the end.
But no, when, when we have this new pandemic that is, you know, got 75% mortality and
There'll be no pretense of being polite in the face of these beliefs.
It'll be a moral emergency, because it has to be.
Jonathan, who's gonna talk about his latest kind of distillation of what the pandemic means to society, to biology, to science, and to democracy, and to the whole kind of idea of empiricism and integrity.
And then each of us, this incredible preeminent panel that we have, each one of you is gonna get a chance to comment
I think truth is good for kids.
We're so busy lying, we don't even recognize the truth no more in this society.
We want everybody to feel good.
That's not the way life is.
But you can tell if someone's lying.
You can sort of feel it in people.
And I have lied.
I'm sure I'll lie again.
I don't want to lie.
I don't think I'm a liar.
I try not to be a liar.
I don't want to be a liar.
I think it's really important not to be a liar.
Now, Dr. Gallo and Dr. Fauci talked a lot about isolation and purification.
Can you tell me what the difference is between the two?
Isolation?
What was that?
Isolation and purification.
Of the virus?
Yes.
Well, you isolate a virus by
finding the virus which causes a disease you purify a virus by making a lot of I mean just by purifying it so you get a pure virus I don't understand what the issue they interchanged the two and I wasn't sure if it was the same thing or if it was two totally different no it depends on how they used it can you explain the process of HIV isolation
Well, didn't Dr. Gallo do that?
I mean, he actually isolated it, so... I mean, why should I do all of this?
This is all textbook stuff you're asking me.
I'm afraid that the latest data...
All right, next I'd like to get into the halftime shuffle groove.
This groove is one of my favorites, some of my favorite drummers.
I love hearing them play this kind of groove.
I used the halftime shuffle groove on the tune Rosanna, the Toto Cut.
And I've been asked about that beat a lot, so I'd like to try to explain that beat at the best of my ability right now, get it clear.
I stole that beat from listening to two records.
One was Home At Last.
and Babylon Sisters, which is Bernard Purdy, Steely Dan Records.
Another is the John Bonham on Fool in the Rain, a Led Zeppelin tune.
The Bernard Purdy thing, I like to call it the Bernard Purdy halftime shuffle, is basically this.
The John Bonham beat that I copied from Fool in the Rain was something like this.
Putting those two beats together, I came up with my own little kind of hybrid.
For Rosanna, I added the Bo Diddley figure.
It's a shuffle Bo Diddley figure.
Basically.
And putting them together, this is what it came up with.
Wake up in the morning, see your eyes.
Rosanna, Rosanna.
Never thought that a girl like you could ever care for me.
Rosanna.
Rosanna, yeah Now she's gone and I have to stay Me too, all the way Me too, all the way Rosanna, yeah Me too, all the way
I can see your face still shining through the window on the other side.
Rosanna, Rosanna.
I didn't know that a girl like you could make me feel so sad.
Rosanna.
Losing my head
All the way!
The End
Good morning, everybody.
I can't agree more about Elon Musk.
I can't agree more.
It drives me bananas sometimes.
I have to
I have to count my, I have to count to 10 or something every once in a while because I just can't believe it.
And I, what, what really strikes me as odd is that there were several people in 2020 and 2021 that I was interacting with in private that were actually super Elon Musk.
Like, he's the man, he's the guy, he's the most patriotic billionaire.
And they were all convinced of it, especially in behind the scenes in a signal chat.
And this always drove me nuts because I kept telling these people, like, this whole Neuralink thing is dumb.
Like, I don't know how to tell you how bad it is.
They don't need to go into your brain to do tricks like that.
And I kept repeating it over and over.
And these people just kind of were like immune to words or something, immune to logic, and they just ignored it.
The same people, the same people who ignore that there's no evidence of spread in New York City, that infectious clones is the only real term you need to understand.
Whoops.
The placebo batches were likely distributed.
That would be the easiest way to pull this off.
And transfection in healthy humans was always dumb.
The same people that keep ignoring that the protocols were murder from the supplemental oxygen at 60 liters a minute all the way to the end.
Gain of function is a mythology and it always has been.
All you need to do is publish papers about it and it's real.
and then the Scooby-Doo mystery that we were tricked into solving is what's getting us to constantly revolve back to people like Tony Fauci and Bill Gates and Peter Daszak, who I totally agree, they need to be thrown into a woodchipper, but that's not where we stop, because it's the masterminds of these ideas that we need to identify and we need to put in the woodchipper, at least from the perspective of our culture and from our leadership,
Because it is a spectacular commitment to these lies that these guys have crafted.
That's all that's required right now.
And they're using weaponized piles of money to get us to argue about these things.
And when we argue about what they want us to argue about, then we accept the premises of their arguments.
That's what Noam Chomsky and this Edward Bernays guys were talking about.
We are governed by this theater where the argument on mainstream media and social media
is governed by them.
And as long as you jump into their mud pit and fight on their terms, then you're accepting their mythologies.
And the way that the only fight resistance that they have against us at this point, as we can see them so clearly, is to attribute bad motives to us.
And that's what they will do now.
for the remainder of the show, basically.
Because as long as these weaponized piles of money continue to dominate, I don't care if they're from Venice and you can see them because they all have lions behind them, or if they're from the city of London, I don't really necessarily need to be shown that.
I just know for sure that we are not dealing with grassroots Americans fighting for America, patriots running for office, this kind of thing.
And it's because these same people for decades have been interested in ultimately where we are now, where we can collect data about genomes, or at least they can tell stories that they can and feed it into AIs, which might get us back to collecting more data or something, I don't know.
The point is, is that if you get into the history,
If you get into the history of these people and you get into the history of these ideas, you can see how we've been stuck in the mud here for 30 years or more.
Maybe even two generations we've been stuck in the mud with these bad ideas that originated around the end of World War II and are the foundation of the vaccine schedule, which is especially criminal in America.
And we inherited the power that they have over us.
That was an inherited situation.
We got that from our parents, because our parents were already bamboozled by these people's mentors.
And that's why I think Mark Kulak's work is so important at Housatonic Live, because the mentors of these people need to be sort of accurately mapped together.
And I think he's one of the few people that's at least trying to do that.
I mean, if there's someone else trying to do that, I'd love to see who they are.
The other problem is that there are charlatans that are pretending to be heroes.
And in so doing, they are perpetuating the exact same mythology that the national biosecurity state wants us to teach our children.
And so if we're going to save our kids from this, we've got to see through all of their illusions, even the multi-generational illusions.
And if we're going to make gentle the life of this world, the life of our kids, as we break out of this mythology, we're going to have to teach them how social media is actually a illusion of consensus.
It's a wave of consensus that appears out of nowhere.
And you think it's a wave, but it's not.
It's a fake wave.
It's got a train over there that's pushing it.
It's got a blade under the water.
It's moving away from the shallow instead of going toward it.
And so it's a fake wave.
And you can think you're surfing right now, and it might be useful for
getting into arguments and stuff like that.
But when you get back to the real world, you need to realize that the waves you've been surfing on on social media are an illusion.
And if those waves are a series of questions, if those waves are a series of assumptions, and then you leave and go into the regular world with those assumptions, you could be vulnerable to enslavement.
If you wanna stay away from that, you gotta stay focused on the biology.
You can't take the bait on social media.
Maybe you have to get off of it entirely and focus on teaching your kids to love their neighbors.
It's especially a American-made message, American-born, American-made message, but it's for the whole world.
It's for all humans that want to listen, because we are team human over here at GigaOM Biological.
And the way this works is I need people to share the stream.
You're just not doing enough.
I don't need you to send me money, although that would be great if you want to.
That would be wonderful.
But what I really need is people to share the work, because we're not getting anywhere.
This is not going anywhere, and it's not because we're not doing a good jazz show here.
It's because somehow or another there's resistance, which means everybody's got to push.
This is like trying to get water to flow uphill.
And so if everybody's not gonna do their part, it's just, it's not gonna happen.
There's not gonna be any spontaneous explosion of gigaohm biological around the world.
It's gonna happen when each and every one of you starts sending an email with a single link in it saying, hey, go to this stream.gigaohm.bio and check out any of the videos.
This biology teacher there is somebody that I listen to and I really like his interpretation about how the paradigm shift could work for our kids instead of against our kids.
That's really what I want.
I want the paradigm shift that these monkeys are trying to initiate with a bunch of chaos.
I want that paradigm shift to help our kids pull their hands down.
I want this to help our kids engage in informed non-compliance.
And so I want to teach
high school kids and college kids a 30,000 foot view of biology that allows them to engage in non-compliance against public health for the rest of their lives.
That's the goal of GigaOM Biological.
I hope you'll help me share this work.
so
Good morning, everybody.
It is not just just morning.
It is 1157 on the 13th of July.
It's Saturday.
I don't normally have a show scheduled, but I do have an empty house.
And so it's I got plenty of time.
I have no excuse not to be here.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am a human just like you.
I think biology is the way out.
And so I do this stream as often as I possibly can.
to teach the biology that edifies the following three basic declarations or statements.
And I'm happy.
I would be thrilled.
If someone with the requisite knowledge could explain to me the exceptions to the first one, if there are any, intramuscular injection of any combination of substances with the intent of augmenting the immune system is dumb.
Quite frankly, I think there are places and times, like in advanced cancer, when injecting a combination of substances with the intent of augmenting the immune system might work for a time
to prolong the life of somebody who was already going to die.
On the other hand, I think the important thing to realize is that we're talking about the augmentation of healthy children, healthy newborn babies.
These are the kinds of absolute mythologies that need to be dispelled once and for all, not for a few weeks, but for generations to come.
Transfection and transformation in healthy humans was always criminally negligent, and this is a lesson that every academic biologist and every
academic medical scientist in every university in America and around the Western world needs to come to the humble conclusion that this is true.
And the final one is, of course, that RNA cannot pandemic, and there is no explanation for how it can, especially if that explanation involves fear and cleavage sites and HIV inserts.
So at this stage where we are, and we must realize this soon so that we can teach our kids effectively before they can't remember it anymore,
Remember, as older adults, our memory of our recent experience is a little bit better and a little more focused and a little bit more in context with the rest of our lives than it is for our younger people, especially those that sort of broke into adulthood while they were going back to university.
Think about this.
People were freshmen in college in the fall of 2020.
I mean, think about how mentally
traumatized those children are because those parents didn't tell them to stay home.
Those parents put them into the, at the mercy of these absolutely perverted and abominated universities in America and so
We have a real big problem here because the young people need rescuing.
They need this truth.
They need the truth that the government lies to them and that it has been lying to us for generations.
We need people alive who can still tell the story of Vietnam to tell it.
We need people who are still alive who can tell these stories to tell them.
because it is these lived experiences that they also, you know, conveniently kind of got rid of with a lot of those, you know, focused vaccination campaigns and continuing to focus.
I just want to let you know that, for example, at my gym where the boys and I go, I told you a story probably a month and a half ago of a guy that works there that had coached at over 20 different universities, or maybe it was only 12.
And so he said that he had spent more time in the gym than anybody he knew.
He got a shingles vaccine and he isn't able to sleep anymore because he has this shooting pain from the top of his head that runs down his arm and goes back into the spine and the shoulder.
And it's some kind of spinal, I don't know what they call it.
I used to know, I mean, I wrote it down.
I looked it up at one point in time and it didn't go away so much so that he's now retiring.
And it's a heartbreaking thing because I swear on, I mean, I know that this is true.
This guy won't talk to me anymore about his pain because he doesn't want to talk about the fact that it comes from the single shot.
And so he's not telling everybody why he's retiring, but he knows that I know.
And you can see that I let a huge weight go off of his shoulders when I,
when I don't ask about it.
And every day that I see him and he says, hey, how are you?
You know, it's like, he's cringing to see if I'm gonna ask him why he's still moving like this.
Of course I know why he's still moving like that.
And so the social media platforms are part of this and the people on them, this is the most important part, it's not just the algorithm.
They don't just use the algorithm to shuffle the really smart people out of the way so that everybody stays dumb.
they have actually put people there.
Of course they did.
They weren't gonna let the internet become a spontaneously populated group of people communicating spontaneously depending on how, you know, their message caught on.
That's not, that cannot possibly be.
what they did with any of these social media platforms.
And once you see it for what it is, they put fake accounts there and they put real live people there with the goal of bamboozling us.
These weaponized piles of money are part of the governance structure.
And that's why it's very important to see that Noam Chomsky and Edward Bernays
These people have been telling us for generations that this is how we are governed.
The real way that we are governed is by a limited spectrum of debate and a lively debate within it.
That's why I hammer home the fact that this guy was put in place because they needed people in place, but Brett Weinstein was put in place earlier.
Sam Harris put in place earlier.
The intellectual dark web put in place earlier.
This all happened in the context of this
ongoing struggle to invert our sovereignty and whatever's left of it here in America into permanent enslavement for our children.
And that's why I think that this is the most apt way to say it, a quote from Thomas Sowell.
These people are misleading our children and they're doing it on podcasts.
that millions of people watch because that's the clips that circulate on Instagram.
Not Jeff from Earth's clips, but these clips.
That's the clips that circulate on every social media platform because it's by design.
They can program that to happen.
And that's the same reason why all of these people rose to prominence, not because they had the right message or because they put out so many great Substack articles, it's because the program was there.
The artificial network of people that was gonna agree to argue with each other and agree to focus on each other.
That was all part of this show.
And the mirror reflection of that is how some of these people on this screen have never talked about each other in a useful and critical way.
How in three and a half years, somebody in Japan who says burn it all down has never really talked critically of Robert Malone until this year.
I mean, it's comical.
How, on the other hand, George Webb was amplified by Robert Malone, where Robert Malone has even done a substack about his 60 Minutes episode and shared the link to the CBS archive of it.
And once you see what that is, that's Robert Malone telling his one million subscribers that if you're going to pay attention to anybody, pay attention to George Webb, and here's why.
You can see why this has been a Lollapalooza of liars, a coordinated Lollapalooza of liars.
They're meeting backstage.
That's why no matter which stage you go to for the next, you know, set or whatever, it's like, ah, this is eerily similar to the last band we saw.
Different take on one idea, but the rest is the same.
This guy, for example, could have told anyone, could have had me on the show because I was the one telling him it in 2021, that we had to teach people what transfection and transformation was.
We might have even gotten to transduction and had a three T words that we would teach everybody the history of.
But instead, this guy tried to drive me bananas.
And eventually him and other people coordinated some kind of drama where other people were leaving the signal chat, because they were also mad.
And so then I followed them, thinking that they agreed with me that Bret Weinstein was obfuscating things.
And they still were part of this theater, this giant theater of liars.
And you think, oh, I don't like this stage.
I'm going to go to another stage.
Oh, these people rock.
They're all taking the same money.
Doesn't matter who you think rocks and who you don't think rocks, if all these bands are gonna get onto the same bus and drive away laughing.
And they are.
They're all gonna get on the gain of function bus.
They've all been on the gain of function bus, the incapacitating agent bus.
It's an incapacitating agent, but it's also causes prions and amyloid and clotting and heart attacks.
And the list is endless.
crosses the blood-brain barrier.
No, no, it goes up the nose and it goes right up the nose and right up the olfactory nerve.
And none of these people in four and a half years will address any of these points.
They won't even touch them.
Well, these cooies write about these things.
And how are they doing it?
They're doing it with this extended, you know, song and dance about what something that happened in 2019, I guess, you know, it might've happened a little earlier than 2020, and we call it a pandemic.
And we can follow it around, you know, we can see it.
It's probably come from a gain-of-function laboratory, and it's changed over the course of these times, and we're waiting for a highly infectious variant of Omicron to come, according to Geert van den Bosch.
These people created this illusion, all of them together.
It wasn't an argument.
It wasn't a fight.
It wasn't a resistance.
It was a theater.
Geert van den Bosch, Merrill Nass, Robert Malone, all of them.
All of them, unfortunately.
That's the terrible part of it.
It's all of them that are still pushing this worst case scenario with this illusion of consensus about what happened, about what happening, about long COVID, about COVID, about the shots, and who's gonna rescue us, who's coming to save us before they kill us all.
These are all the same things that everybody's saying.
If you say incapacitating agent or prions, or if you say avian flu is real, but it's not dangerous, you're still saying all the same shit.
And the way they get away with it is they don't ever scrutinize what they were doing in 2020 and 2021.
We don't scrutinize what they said.
We don't realize that in those two years, these people got us onto this train of solving the mystery, of accepting their argument.
That was their job.
to make sure that everybody paid attention, that it sure looks like these emails look like a coverup.
Everybody paid attention.
It looks like that discussion in the Senate sure is an argument between Rand Paul and Tony Fauci.
It looks like Fauci got burned.
And this faith in the novel virus that's continuing to circulate the globe, that is preached by Human Genome Project entrepreneur Kevin McKernan, and Tony Fauci, and Peter Daszak, and most of the rest of the quote-unquote resistance, is the evidence of the faith.
It's very, very simple to see, once you see it, that none of them contradict this faith.
Don't talk about 2020.
I think we ran out again.
Just do that quick.
This is the faith.
This is the faith that they keep protecting.
We're in the car with them.
We have to stop the car.
We have to get out.
and make sure that nobody else gets in the car with them again.
They can't just let them drive on and go pick up other people.
We got to stop them from giving people rides.
We got to start getting people to realize that they don't talk about any of these people.
They don't talk about any of these things.
And the reason why is because a lot of the policies, a lot of the ideas can be seen in these people's behavior.
The idea that we wanted medical data to be centralized, the idea that we knew we needed to start testing people, sampling people, we don't know to what extent they've gone and how far they've gone with it.
Especially because the only information we really have is that that's publicly available, which we already know is not exhaustive.
Now, I don't want to talk about dead people.
But Joshua Lederberg is somebody that you can use to, you know, if you have a point over there and then another point over here and then another point over there and they all line up intellectually, then it's important.
And Joshua Lederberg is one of these people that's got like a nice history line that goes right back intellectually through a lot of these things that if that line, which is defined by Joshua Lederberg fits through a bunch of living people,
then we have to see it for what it is, a continuous line of thought, a continuous line of reasoning about how humans just morally might as well be thought of as experimental animals.
And we can, as long as we think about it the right way and talk about it the right way.
And so that line is why Joshua Lederberg is important, even though he is currently a dead dude.
And that's another reason why it's very conspicuous that these people haven't been able to give us a kind of insight into the history of these ideas that people like Mark Kulak have.
And so that repeated again, I got to check that better.
So anyway, I just wanted to make sure you realize that I'm still mentioning names.
I still think it's really important to mention names.
And I still think it's really important what we did about four or five days ago when we looked at a two part series.
with Robert Malone on Vajon Health in 2021, because he said a lot of things that he never really repeated.
And some of those things are summarized here in this slide.
Number one, he said he worked on retroviruses.
He had a very big enthusiasm for using retroviruses for genetic therapy.
Yes, that's right.
He said genetic therapy.
The guy did not say genetic engineering.
He said genetic therapy, which is the term that was, of course, described in the Joshua Lederberg article with
Mr. Wolf, Mr. Wolf being the whole, maybe he's a doctor, but Mr. Wolf being the guy who, is it?
It's something A. Wolf, I can't remember if it's Richard A. Wolf or, I'm sorry, I would have to look and I don't wanna click out.
The point is, is that that guy's the first author on the transformation paper, the Naked DNA paper, and Robert Malone never mentions him.
And in this case, that guy wrote a review four years after that article with Joshua Lederberg, which I would say is a,
is a very big badge of honor.
I mean, you know, I worked with Edward Moser and Maybritt Moser for many years and they've held my children when they were babies.
And those people will never call me up to do a review about biology when they have current students and they have current postdocs and they have, you know, current collaborators and whatever, they'll never call me up.
And so when somebody like Joshua Lederberg says, hey, let's write a review together, that's a very big hat tip.
And so Robert Malone says he was interested specifically and did his, I don't know, some of his graduate work on packaging sequences, which I'm going to spend the next few days trying to put into the context of
of the biology metaphor of computers because a lot of energy is spent in neurobiology and a lot of energy is spent in molecular biology thinking on and off about these molecular and cellular processes as having a homologue in computers.
In other words, thinking about how a computer works we can learn how the brain works or if we use computer as a model of how
thinking might occur, then I guess we can look for analogous parts of a computer in the brain or vice versa.
And they've also thought about this with regard to molecules and genes, how genes are signals or translated and how molecular signals can be done.
And so these metaphors are terrible, right?
Little molecular machines is what they think of cellular machinery as just a little clock.
And all of these metaphors
fall short of capturing the irreducible complexity and acknowledging it, but rather try to talk around it and ignore it and oversimplify what we know into something that can be used to bamboozle us and our children.
And this is a part of it, this idea of virology and what it means, how it fits in with us.
And the best analogy that I've come up with is this idea that you can't make a cuckoo clock make toast.
I won't do that here.
But again, he also says that he suffered PTSD because he was so ethically superior compared to the way that that lab was structured and the way that people treated his intellectual property.
And after several setbacks, he eventually became employed by DITRA and DOD and gave speeches in front of the WHO, presentations at the WHO, and chaired study sections where he gave away or helped people
write grants for the tune of more than $50 billion.
He won't touch Judy Mikovits, hasn't really talked about her, even though I think she descends directly from the same mentor chain, idea chain of old white men, which I find very, very curious from the perspective of them also being in music videos together.
And he also did a music, no, it's not a music video, it's like a,
a overproduced video in the mountains of Spain in 2021, talking about GERD and talking with GERD about how the limited transfection to the spike, and they didn't use that word, might cause the virus to mutate or to evolve, yada, yada, yada.
If you want to find out more about these people, please go to houstatonicits.com.
I think that's probably the best database that you can look at.
Now I was going to talk about this email that I got.
I got an email chain.
The last few days, let's say a week and a half or so, I've been getting an email that I paid attention to and then I missed it again and then I paid attention to it again because it came with another Adenim.
But we've got this really, I think, very clever follower.
first name with an A, and that's all I'll say for now so that the person knows who I'm talking about.
And they gave me a lot of very handy information, ideas, analogies, and in-depth analogies with regard to computer programming, computer signaling, this kind of thing.
And I think that my friend Mark Kulak is also going to really appreciate these analogies, but they just appeared in my email box, or the best one in my humble opinion.
that really caught my attention and made me understand the rest of them better, appeared in my email box this morning.
So I thought even briefly about not doing Elon Musk is a not a visionary today because it was so important.
But instead, I think it's more important for me to do this because I have it planned and delve a little deeper into how to use the entire set of analogies that he put in those emails.
But cheers for that.
It's a real goldmine.
I really love it.
So the reason why I want to do Elon Musk is not a visionary is because he did a recent video two days ago or three days ago with an update on Neuralink.
And I want to take a hard look at this first, like in a study hall sense.
It's like a 39-minute video, so it's not that long.
But given my style, it'll take us an hour.
But I want you to see the kinds of things he's representing.
Then I want to show you a very brief news report from Colorado.
And then tomorrow, I think we can summarize what we do today and then do a journal club about a paper for which I have a great deal of background and can explain probably in a good enough way to
sort of emphasize the ridiculousness of what we'll cover today.
So again, we're going to cover this today, and it's two videos.
One video of Elon Musk and his Neuralink team that just got up on YouTube a couple days ago, and then a Colorado news program from a couple days ago.
And then tomorrow we're going to again use this as a stepping stone to do a detailed journal club about a very particular paper in my previous, you know, I guess you could call it current still, specialty neurobiology and the study of spatial awareness and spatial coding and memory in the brain.
And so I think it'll be a really nice program tomorrow.
I like the idea of Sunday being a program where we really appreciate the irreducible complexity and try to get a good handle on how we can see it, even in the literature of, primary literature of neurobiology.
So without further ado, Elon Musk is not a visionary part one.
Again, we're gonna start with a video of the,
the recent Neuralink thing, a massive Neuralink update was the title.
Welcome.
I hope this is working.
Welcome to Neuralink live update.
We're going to tell you about the progress.
Sorry for the volume there.
My bad.
And a recap of the progress there.
Then talk about what changes we were making for the second patient, which we're hoping to do an implant in the next week or so.
And this is for our first product, which is called Telepathy, which enables you to control a computer or a phone just by thinking.
So let's, in fact, so we'll start off with just some introductions.
DJ, you want to start?
Hi, everyone.
My name is DJ Seo.
I'm an electrical engineer and a chip designer by training.
I led the design of first several generations of the Neuralink implant.
Currently, I was on the founding team and currently a president.
I'm Matthew McDougall.
I'm a practicing neurosurgeon and head of neurosurgery at Neuralink.
Yeah, go ahead.
Head of Brain Interfaces Applications.
And I'm Bliss.
I'm a software engineer at Neuralink, trying to figure out how to turn brain activity into cool stuff in the world.
All right, thank you.
Let's see.
So we'll just get going into the presentation.
Our first product is something, like I said, we call telepathy, which enables the person with the Neuralink implant to control their phone or computer just by thinking.
And once you can control your phone or computer, you can essentially control almost anything, literally just by thinking.
So there's no eye tracking or anything.
It is purely your thoughts.
This is really quite a profound device that can help a lot of people who have lost the connection between their brain and body.
Imagine people like Stephen Hawking who, imagine if he could communicate at the same speed as someone who still had the connection to their brain and body.
Now remember that Stephen Hawking could communicate at the same speed.
He could probably talk faster than half America.
With his little speak and spell thing.
I don't know if that was real.
I assume it was.
I got something caught in my pen here.
I gotta pull out quick.
Shit.
Excuse my language.
Darn it, I don't know what's stuck in there.
It's some kind of piece of paper that's getting me all messed up.
Did that come out?
No.
Get out.
Okay, there went out.
So our first product is telepathy.
So generalized brain interface to restore autonomy, those with unmet medical needs.
So again, this is something that he's trying to tell you wasn't already solved in Stephen Hawking.
Imagine if Stephen Hawking could move his mouse without having to, you know, use the remaining muscles that he has.
Imagine if Stephen Hawking, you know, this kind of thing is absolutely ridiculous.
And by the end of this show, I'm going to have you convinced.
But they call it telepathy.
Telepathy would be more from the Dungeons and Dragons perspective.
Telepathy is the ability to send thoughts or read thoughts of somebody else.
So he's already using the word incorrectly from its previous definition.
And I'm not,
I'm not saying the Dungeons and Dragons defines anything.
I'm just saying that a lot of these words are very well defined in mythologies that have existed for decades and decades.
And those mythologies, whether you like it or not, often were
collected all in that game Dungeons and Dragons.
And one of these, you know, there were spells.
There were teleportation, telepathy, telekinesis.
These are all words that have very specific meanings.
Teleportation, you move from one place to another instantaneously.
The movie Fly is about that.
Telepathy should be reading thoughts, sharing thoughts, or even imposing thoughts.
And then telekinesis would be the ability to move objects with your mind.
So the idea of telepathy is already, it's already wrong.
It's already dumb.
It should be called telekinesis then because they're going to move the mouse.
They're going to move a keyboard.
They're going to type.
They're going to do silly things.
Listen carefully.
It's really something that can help millions of people around the world.
Help millions of people around the world give them something that they then become dependent on instead of finding a way to empower them to work despite their handicap.
Do you see how extraordinarily lame this is?
It's part of our overall goal of enabling very high bandwidth connection between the brain and the rest of the world and your computers.
The long-term goal, which sounds a little esoteric, is to mitigate the risk of AI by having a closer symbiosis between human intelligence and digital intelligence.
Oh.
Oh my gosh.
He thinks that if we get ahead of the AI and we make a useful brain-mind interface before AI becomes fully conscious and crazy, that we will have a better chance of containing it in the future.
Stop lying!
I mean, that's just, that is hilarious.
I should have had bourbon or something here because I would be laughing uncontrollably right now, but instead I'm in my usual mode of, oh my gosh, this guy drives me bananas.
It's part of our overall goal of enabling very high bandwidth connection between the brain and the rest of the world and your computers.
The long-term goal, which sounds a little esoteric, is to mitigate the risk of AI by having a closer symbiosis between human intelligence and digital intelligence.
But that'll take many years.
Because putting electrodes in somebody's brain or a mouse's brain is a closer symbiosis between the computer and the brain.
So when neuroscientists put electrodes in rats and watch them walk around in a box, that is a closer symbiosis between machine and animal than the day before.
I mean, this kind of mythology can only work on really, really misinformed people or people that use social media at a skilled level so that this illusion of consensus is so overwhelming that so many people like Brett Weinstein and Alexandros Marinos and Chris Martinson and Jordan Peterson all agree that Elon Musk is like a super genius.
then when he goes on on any of these places and says any of these things and all of these people are standing behind them going yeah yeah yeah for a fat paycheck and fame he is selling the worst kind of lie here because it is misleading only kids and adults that don't have the requisite knowledge to know how ridiculous this is that's why we have to we have to hit here hard and often
This illusion can be broken.
He's masquerading as a renaissance man.
Maybe not that dissimilar from how Robert Malone is masquerading as a renaissance man.
Along the way, we're going to help solve a lot of brain injury or spinal injury issues.
And then with our first product, telepathy, that's going to be really quite profound.
There is also potential long term for bridging the gaps if there are damaged or severed neurons, being able to span the gap between the brain's motor cortex to the spine to enable someone to use their body again.
I think that would be very exciting.
And it's... I would think that would be very exciting.
And that's not anything that anyone in neuroscience didn't say already 30 years ago.
That's not anything that Chris Reeve hasn't said a million times over.
This is so silly.
It's not like they're the first people to ever look at this as a problem.
There are people who purposefully rip the part or cut the spine of rats to see if they can cause spontaneous rewiring and they've been doing it for a decade or more.
Are you kidding me?
This is just ridiculous.
And again, it is malevolent because they are misleading our young with this dumb shit.
That is something that is possible in the long term.
And then our second product, which we've demonstrated to work with monkeys, is blindsight, which would enable someone who is completely blind, lost both eyes, or completely lost their optic nerve to be able to see.
So that's something that we hope to demonstrate in the future.
Think about all those different things that he said that they could fix, because they're not all the same.
Somebody that has optic nerve damage still has all of the cortical wiring.
I mean... Or bridging the gaps, if there are damaged or severed neurons, being able to span the gap between the brain's motor cortex to the spine to enable someone to use their body again.
I think that would be very exciting.
And that is something that is possible in the long term.
And then our second product, which we've demonstrated to work with monkeys, is blindsight, which would enable... We've demonstrated works with monkeys.
They've demonstrated it works with monkeys.
My guess is that this is bullshit.
My guess is this is a gigantic lie.
Because if this was possible, it would be like Nobel Prize level.
neurobiology.
Like this, if what he is saying, and I'm decoding it correctly, this would be ridiculously badass.
And of course, it's got to be a lie.
I'm going to rewind 30.
And it's that that is something that is possible in the long term.
and then our second product which we've demonstrated to work with monkeys is blindsight which would enable someone who is completely blind lost both eyes or completely lost their optic nerve to be able to see so that's what they say he just claimed it right there that somebody who lost their eyes or had optic nerve damage could see again and they have what they have done it in monkeys
Is he claiming that he severed the optic nerve of monkeys in an ethical experiment and then restored sight and is somehow able to see it?
Because what, the monkey recognizes his friends again or the monkey can still play chess?
How do they evaluate it?
Where's that nature paper?
That is a bold,
bold claim to just kind of put in here as you know if you just you know if you walked out of the room a second or you you started drinking and you and you were swallowing too loud you might have missed that part
to enable someone to use their body again.
I think that would be very exciting.
And that is something that is possible in the long term.
And then our second product, which we've demonstrated to work with monkeys, is blindsight, which would enable someone who is completely blind, lost both eyes, or completely lost their optic nerve to be able to see.
So that's something that we hope to demonstrate in the future.
So this just gives you a sense.
Wait, so they've done it in monkeys or not?
Could they restore light sensitivity?
Sure.
But this claim that he just made and we hope to show it soon that they're gonna do it in people and blind people, it's not the same thing.
Again, if you can restore light sensitivity, sure, that's great.
That's not very hard, dude.
But restore vision, get the nerves to regrow.
These are all different kinds of claims that have nothing to do with neurons.
I mean, electrodes and implants.
And so we're doing all kinds of shell games here with what are we really talking about?
What's our primary technology here?
Is it a robot that does surgery and implants a little chip?
Or is it a drug that restores neuronal growth or stimulates it?
Or is it a wire that you put across, you know?
This is just the biggest bunch of bullshit ever.
So here we go.
Surgical implant of the thing.
There's the thing we're talking about.
Neural decoding software to translate brain signals into useful output.
So here we go.
Let's see what he says about this.
A way to think about the neural link device is like a Fitbit or an Apple watch with
tiny wires or electrodes.
Those tiny wires are implanted in the brain and they read and write electrical signals.
A lot of people think the brain is this incredibly mysterious thing.
It is mysterious in a lot of ways, but it is actually, it does operate with electrical signals.
So if you can read and write those electrical signals, you can interface with the brain.
And the device is sized so that it is the same size.
If you can read and write those signals.
Now the problem with reading and writing those signals is, is the following.
as best as we can understand it, okay?
So, I don't know how many people will shell me for this, but I'm just going to teach and, you know, people can shell me for it later.
But what we're talking about here, let's just talk about a simple neuronal network that, for example, represents the feeling and image I get right now when my best friend is in the Netherlands and I think about her.
So we're going to make a super simple analogy here.
But there might be neurons in my visual cortex that can remember what V looks like.
And there might be neurons in my auditory cortex that kind of can remember her laugh.
There might be some neurons that are in my olfactory cortex that can remember her perfume or her soap.
And there might be some neurons in my
I don't know, amygdala, because I have such an emotional connection with her.
And so these neurons have long range connections with each other and the axon will have, I mean, when they map these, the axons of single neurons in the brain, it is absolutely absurd.
It's exactly the opposite of what you might think of from the perspective of roots for a tree, for example.
Because this neuron might have dendrites that are all very local and maybe stay within, let's say, a cubic millimeter.
Again, these might be wrong.
It might be off by a little bit.
But the axon can travel all around the brain.
The axon from that single neuron that has dendrites that are only in like one cubic millimeter.
could vary, I mean, maybe they've got some dendrites up here that go two cubic millimeters or something like that, but we're not, we're not, I'm not under, under, I'm not going too far off here when I say that the axon of this neuron could span for millimeters, centimeters, it could go from one side of the brain all the way to the other through the corpus callosum and then synapse on a thousand other neurons in five different regions of the brain over here.
and that would not be an unusual projection pattern at all.
So what Elon Musk just said is that if we can read and write
to that set of signals, then we can interface with the brain.
Now, if you stick an electrode in here, and you can see the signals from all the neurons in this square, but you can also see the signals from the axons of these neurons that are going past here, but not necessarily synapsing there, because those signals are also real.
you can lower an electrode down into a bundle of axons like the corpus callosum and you can record lots of signals.
In fact, early people recording from the brain had to learn to differentiate between when they were in a laminar structure that had lots of axons in it versus when they were in the cortex or a place where the neuronal cell bodies were.
And although that's doable, that was part of the exploration.
They had to learn that.
So what Elon Musk is doing is putting a bunch of electrodes in a place that can be no bigger than, what, a centimeter around?
And then he's pretending that we can read useful signals from a network that is decentralized across trillions of neurons in countless brain regions yet to be identified as functionally significant.
And yet somehow or another, he purports that with that little thing there and some electrodes in one place, that this is the start of a technology that's going to understand how a
disparately distributed random network of neurons that has built up their connections over decades is going to be usefully augmented by drilling a hole in the skull and putting some electrodes into one tiny little part of that.
Your brain is not even as well uniformly organized as a computer or a television.
It would be absurd to propose to do that in that context.
Now we're talking about an irreducible complexity of hundreds of billions of neurons and hundreds of billions of signals that actually summate to become you, the conscious, intelligent, free will being that you are.
Even if you believe most of reductionist biology, you must believe that, that at some point the emergence of who we are is greater than the sum of any of these parts.
And yet he is talking as though it is just as simple as putting a couple electrodes into a television set.
And if you do it enough times, you'll eventually figure out how the image appears.
You couldn't do that with a television.
So there's no freaking way you can do it with the biological entity that is the human brain.
And yet here he is in his little crew of illusion of consensus crowd telling you that he can and will.
That's the piece of skull that is removed.
So it's like a few centimeters diameter of skull that's removed.
We replaced that with the device after implanting the tiny wires with the surgical robot.
And that enables read-write capability to the neurons.
Yes.
It enables read-write capability to the neurons.
No.
Stop.
No!
That is so wrong!
If you put electrodes into the soil, does that give you read-write capability to the microbes?
If you put electrodes into a fish and record signals, now can you just feed back to them?
No!
The very simple answer would be because you don't even know if you put your electrodes into a bundle of axons or if you're putting your electrodes into a useful place to stimulate the activity of a single neuron.
It's just so stupid.
And yet he's allowed to get away with it.
And people like Brett Weinstein and, and Alexandros Marinos and a hundred thousand other people don't ever bother to usefully question this.
But this is really, really bad.
Like it's not even, it's not even like, it's bad.
You know, Theranos was claiming to do something that I think in the grand scheme of things might be easier to have done with existing technologies like Lieber's technology than what he's claiming to do.
Exactly.
It's completely wirelessly.
I could have a neural link right now, you wouldn't know.
And it charges inductively.
So you could just basically have an electromagnetic pad that you charge the device with.
So yeah, it's like an Apple Watch.
Exactly.
Except that it's actually a much harder technical challenge to solve, given that there's a limit as to how much you eat the brain tissue, whereas for
You can have a hot watch or whatever.
Sure.
Yeah, so it's got to go through scan and stuff as well in our case.
So it is a tougher challenge to charge and to have high bandwidth communications given that it's got... We're not talking about a toy.
We're not talking about a pen.
We're not talking about a custom knife.
We're not even talking about a very fancy Swiss watch.
They are... and in any of those cases you would never talk about just willy-nilly we're just gonna put stuff in it.
He wouldn't just get out a, I don't know, a really expensive watch and say that we're just gonna open it up and start playing around and see if we can make it work better.
But somehow or another, these five guys are helping and standing by Elon Musk as he claims that that's exactly what they endeavor to do.
They're already doing it.
It works in monkeys already.
Blindsight.
Stop lying!
to go through skin and hair and stuff.
We have solved it.
We have solved it, yeah.
Yeah, so our first step with telepathy is basically to... They're more interested in the problem of how do we charge the device than anything else.
How does the device go through a scanner than anything else?
They don't give a hoot about the biology they are encroaching upon.
Oh, can you play Civilization with one of these things in your head?
Well, that's just moving a mouse, isn't it?
That's just telekinesis of the mouse.
That's just dumb.
They can do that with monkeys without implanting anything.
Unlock digital independence for people with paralysis and to allow them to control the computer just with their mind without moving the body.
And our goal is to provide them the same level of control, functionality, and reliability that I have when I'm using a computer.
Even better than the level of control I have.
It's not a high bar for you.
To be clear, this guy, he's controlling this with his brain.
So he's not, you can't see his hands in this video, but he's not using a mouse and keyboard.
Just thinking about how to move the cursor and playing Civilization VI.
No eye tracker.
Right.
There's no eye tracker.
He's live streaming it.
Now the illusion that they've created here is that there was no machine learning involved.
They want you to believe that the device can be go...
right onto the head and instantaneously, oh wow, look, I can control my mouse.
No, no, no, no, no.
There would be hundreds of hours most likely of training the implant after implantation.
And so maybe it's only 10 hours, but it's still hours where he needs to move the mouse in some other way.
And then the machine learning algorithm that supports what's happening here eventually figures out by averaging the signals that it sees there and comparing each time you try to move the mouse to the upright, lower right, up, just like when you calibrate a joystick on the switch,
Just like when you calibrate a joystick for your remote control for an airplane or for a helicopter, they just do that for his brain.
Okay, think about it.
And then the signals are recorded.
And you wouldn't need the electrodes to be in the brain for those signals to be recorded.
You could put a whole headpiece on.
You could have a focused reader.
You could have electrodes that are just here on your hand.
And the signals could be reading a nerve from your arm.
There's lots of different ways it's already been done in monkeys.
And they already know you don't need to implant anything.
This is dumb.
And yet they are showing it to you as if this is a breakthrough.
We're saving this guy.
We're making his life better because now he can control that with his mind.
At least as long as he doesn't lose his charger.
He's not thinking cursor move here.
That's the other thing that's so stupid.
What he's thinking about is moving his hand.
Even if he can't move his hands, he can still think about moving his hands.
And in doing that, he creates a pattern that becomes stereotypic for moving your hand to the upper right, to the lower right, to there, to that, to that.
And they can say that they don't have his eye data, but I can guarantee you when they were training,
When they were training the algorithm, they used his eye data.
They tracked his eyes.
They probably have to put a set of goggles on him, and then he moves the mouse with his mind, and using his eyes, looking where he wants to look.
And then at some point, they don't need him to look where he's looking for it to go exactly where it goes, because that's how generic these signals are.
And the interesting part about this, ladies and gentlemen, is that's because it does seem that certain signals in the brain are represented disparately, you know, across the brain, distributed signals.
And so certain signals like motion and body position can be represented in several places in the brain simultaneously.
And that kind of makes sense.
But we haven't had the ability to sort of see this until very recently.
And so it isn't very unusual that you don't have to put this in a particularly special place.
But if you put it in the right place, you'll see a lot of these signals.
So they put it in the motor cortex, of course.
where a lot of these signals are very highly represented and very highly represented with a pretty high signal-to-noise ratio, even the imagining of movement.
It's a trick, ladies and gentlemen, it's a parlor trick and you're going to see in a few minutes that actually you don't need to put any device, you don't need to put any electrodes into somebody's brain to do exactly what they're claiming this guy's doing now.
He also described that he's using the... Yeah.
There's many more videos on his, on the platform.
Yeah, so he can, he's streaming that live and also can talk and move his head...
Yeah, you can also, if you join this live stream, you can ask him questions.
He'll tell you all about what it's like to move.
Also, I think I haven't played Civilization myself, but I think this is actually not easy mode.
This is expert mode.
This is emperor mode.
Emperor mode.
If you have played Civ, emperor mode is like the highest difficulty level.
Just the point is, this is a cognitively demanding task while live streaming, playing the hardest mode game, and he's able to do that while moving.
Yeah, talking, engaging with the audience while playing.
One of the other games he likes to play a lot is chess.
Wow, so he's on Twitch demonstrating that he can use this device to do this and it's gross.
I think it gets lost sometimes that he's actually playing speed chess.
The funny thing is, is that they might have a slightly higher resolution of control or a slightly higher palette or a larger palette of control because of the amount of signals that they may be able to get from electrodes as opposed to trans
cranial something or other, you know, like magnetics or whatever you would use in that sense, or even measuring from a peripheral nerve.
And so in that sense, I'll give him that.
That, wow, no kidding, right?
You can put electrodes in and you get better signals, a higher signal-to-noise ratio.
Wow, surprise, surprise.
But that doesn't mean that what he's doing is some magic trick or that they've solved any problems at all.
All they have to do is make sure that that guy's head doesn't get infected, because if it gets infected and he dies from the infection, then this whole thing is a joke, right?
Hope he doesn't get infected in the next 40 years of his life.
Which requires an incredibly high fidelity degree of control.
Can you go play basketball without a cycle helmet on or something?
How does that work?
I hit my head a lot in the garage and stuff.
Would that be a problem if I hit my head?
and speed of control in order to be able to win.
Also, another cool stuff about our device is that you can use it anywhere, anytime, also on a plane, during a flight, while creating really cool memes of games.
Also, our device unlocks things that previously were impossible for our participants.
For example, we were able to connect him to his gaming consoles, which play Mario Kart with friends and family, and it was lovely to see them playing together after years that he couldn't do it since his injury.
Imagine if you're sitting on a row over from this guy.
You look over, he's making a cat meme.
No hands, no movement.
Yeah.
But even that's a lie, right?
You can see it.
I mean, he's, what did he do?
He took a picture and he added a, he drew some mustache on it.
Ooh, he's really good, isn't he?
It's really precise.
He's a great drawer and they restored drawing.
What a joke.
and he couldn't do it since he's injured.
Imagine if you're sitting on a row over from this guy.
You look over, he's making a cat meme.
No hands, no movement.
Living in a real world.
Yeah, it's a strange time.
Yeah, and he loves using the device and using it independently daily to watch videos, read, play games using the browser.
And the key metrics that we care is to make sure our device is actually useful is to basically the amount of hours we use the device daily and weekly.
And we track it since the surgery.
And on weeks that he's not too busy and not traveling, he can even reach 70 hours of using the device a week.
This is amazing.
And he would, of course, love to use it more, but need to run and he needs to sleep sometimes.
And also, of course, to charge the device once in a while.
Hopefully, we'll improve that over time.
Maybe not obvious to people who are watching this.
It's a normal MacBook he's controlling.
This isn't like some limited edition thing where there's only a few options.
You can just do anything that you can do on a MacBook Pro.
Same one I have on my desk, actually.
It's the exact same one.
You notice that they didn't show him typing.
I'm sure he can type, but he can't type any faster than I can with Hunt and Peck.
It's not like he can think the words and they show up.
So they're not reading anybody's brain.
And even when they do that, and they will eventually probably be able to do that with rudimentary words, maybe it's possible, I don't know.
They still will not be doing what they claim to be doing because they will use machine learning in a training session that could be weeks or months before any rudimentary language could ever be read out, even if it was only 50 words.
and what you visualized.
Even that is going to take them a long time.
And remember, they started out by saying that blindsight works in monkeys.
that they'd already gotten it to work in Monkeys.
And now they're telling you, I mean.
I was able to outperform about 10% of our engineer at Neuralink.
And you can be sure that we are very good in this game and very quick.
And if you want to check out how well you can do it, you can do it on our website.
And it's a very addictive game.
Yeah, it's a very simple game.
You just have to click on the square.
But actually, even though it sounds silly, it's quite a, yeah, it can be quite, it sounds like it can be quite addictive.
Especially if you get a low score and you think, there's no way I got it.
Anyone who wants to try this, I recommend going to the Neuralink.com website and seeing if you can beat Nolan's record.
And you will find that it's actually quite difficult to do.
This is really with version one of the device and with only a small percentage of the electrodes that are working.
So this is really just the beginning, but even the beginning is twice as good as the world record.
This is important to emphasize.
The media has a habit of saying that the glass is 10% empty, but actually it's 90% full.
I think it's really quite an accomplishment of the Neuralink team to have achieved with the first patient, the first device, twice the world record for the brain-to-computer bandwidth.
That's really an astonishing, amazingly great outcome.
And it's only going to get better from here.
So the potential is to ultimately get, I think, to megabit level.
I mean, the guy is not even articulate.
It's really frustrating.
He's made out to be this polymath, super interesting guy, and I've never heard him say anything profound in all the years that I've been listening to him.
He's never explained anything really profound or very deep, and he's never demonstrated any insight at all.
Some of the things that he's said about the brain so far are just absolutely adolescent, if not infantile.
long-term goal of improving the bandwidth of the brain-computer interface.
If you think about how low the bandwidth normally is between a human and... You can see that they've cut this, right?
I mean, they've even cut it to try and improve his fluidity, and it's still gosh-awful.
device, the average bandwidth is extremely low.
It's, I'd say, less than one bit per second over the course of a day.
If there are 86,400 seconds in a day, you're outputting less than that number of bits to any given device, except in perhaps very rare circumstances.
This is actually quite important for AI, basically for human-AI symbiosis, is just being able to communicate at a speed the AI can follow.
Yeah, just to emphasize again, he's performing at this extremely high level with about... That's the second time that he's made the argument that this is a precursor technology which will allow us to interact with computers at a speed that will be helpful in containing AI's danger.
It's the second time he's said that stupid shit.
And it's just ridiculous.
Now, I will agree with Endless Current in the chat that experimenting in ways to help handicapped people is fine.
I'm fine with that.
Just like I'm fine with if you want to use mRNA to cure somebody with an advanced cancer and it works, great.
I'm totally down with that.
That's possible.
But the idea that these technologies are useful in augmenting a healthy human and useful, like a cell phone is useful to your little kid, this is just absurd.
And the idea that if we just, you know, we don't start now, then we're not going to have a human interface with computers that is going to be sufficient to restrain the AI in some useful way.
This idea that he keeps repeating is repeated on purpose because it is part of a mythology they would like to teach our children.
It is a real mythology that we need a brain-mind interface that's of high enough resolution before AI becomes conscious or holy crap, we're certain doom.
That's what he's saying here.
15% of his channels.
And so we want to mitigate any of the problems that led to that situation.
The brain is a fascinating organ.
I'll share with you some of the secrets about the brain.
During any typical brain surgery, a small amount of air is introduced into the skull.
That's because neurosurgeons like to have as much room as possible around the brain.
And so there's this little known control mechanism of allowing the
that concentration in the blood to rise a bit, which allows the brain to either expand or contract depending on where you target that CO2.
But typically, neurosurgeons will have the brain shrink by lowering CO2.
What we're going to do in our future surgeries is keep the CO2 concentration actually quite normal, maybe even slightly elevated, and that'll allow the brain to stay its normal size and shape during surgery.
That should eliminate this air pocket that we saw in the first participant.
That air pocket, we think, may have contributed to eating up some of the thread slack as the air bubble migrated to be under the implant, pushed the brain away from the implant.
And so that's easy enough to fix.
And so think about that.
Think about that.
He's describing some kind of, you know, methodological thing that they figured out on a human.
Maybe we shouldn't use the same CO2 concentration that makes the brain shrink a little bit.
Maybe we should instead keep it swollen.
Maybe we have to do brain surgery a little different in order to implant these stupid devices.
Does this guy really believe that that was ethical?
That that was ethical for that, just because he signed the paper, you know, might as well do it.
This is just gross.
It's so irreverent to the person.
who they did this to, and it's so irreverent to the problem they purport to be trying to solve.
It's just disgusting.
And it's intellectually insulting.
They have contributed to eating up some of the thread slack as the air bubble migrated to be under the implant, pushed the brain away from the implant.
And so that's easy enough to fix.
Another consideration that we want to focus on for our upcoming participants is that the brain, think of it like a really complex folded onion.
It's layer upon layer of sheets of neurons all over the surface of the brain folded into this odd looking shape.
the folds of the brain travel down deep into the brain, and along with it go those onion layers of neurons.
And if we insert very close to one of the folds, where there may be very useful information encoded in neurons, we may end up traveling with our threads parallel to some of the layers of neurons that we're most interested in, avoiding them entirely.
To avoid that possibility, we're going to insert in our future participants more close to the middle of
the apex of the folds, ensuring that we're crossing the layers of interest, layer five of the cortex.
So this is just so silly.
It is just so silly.
The way that he talks about it, and again, he's talking about it like a surgeon, not even talking about it like somebody who appreciates the beauty of it.
I think I might have the screen up here also available.
Yeah.
Here's the one I have on my Mac has all the different brains of all the mammals.
I think this one right here is a dolphin.
I'm pretty sure that one over there in the corner is a human.
I think this is a dolphin.
One of those up there, the big fat one is a manatee, I think.
Some mid-range ones are monkeys and dogs.
And then the rodents are up there in the corner, although I don't know
Can't do that one.
I don't know what this one is.
I'm pretty sure this is a human.
I'm pretty sure this is a dolphin I'm pretty sure this one is a manatee and then these are like lions and and and and Dogs and wolves or something like that.
I'd have to look it up again And so what he's talking about is is that this structure right here?
Actually is a
The neocortex is made up of these curves, and if you could cut them sideways, what you would see is that there are neurons that are arranged around the bends like this into layers.
And those layers are like that, and then they go around, right?
So the layers are like this.
And so what he's arguing is if you think of this as a three-dimensional thing like my finger, then these layers, even if you turn this thing this way, then these layers are also present like if you turned it that way, then I guess the layers would kind of look like this in the cross-section, right, with neurons like this.
But then if you dropped your electrodes down in this way, then you'd be moving parallel to like this.
You'd turn this this way, then your electrodes would be moving like this across these things instead of necessarily like down, for example.
This is a funny little pen that somebody in Pennsylvania makes.
It's got a really cool design because it should be kind of non-leak proof.
But it's getting all over me only because this thing had a little fuzz in it.
and then it's uh it's machined right so he machines all of these things and then it goes like this and it's all airtight so it doesn't leak or anything like that super tiny pen it's really cool um i should probably put a link somewhere but anyway i bought it so it's not like i'm i'm advertising for him but i just wanted you to see why i was using such a tiny pen anyway the point is is that that's what he's talking about
The cortex is a bunch of wrinkles.
Again, I showed you all the wrinkles over here.
The cortex is like this.
And if you were to cut this, you know, like this, that way you just slice it flat and then you would see something like that.
And if you take it and turn the wrinkle like that, you might see something like this.
And so depending on how you put the electrode in at the top of the brain, then you're going to either be going down into the top.
of a wrinkle like this, or you might be going down into a wrinkle like this or the other way, you know, that's what he's talking about.
And so to say that that is the same across every person, it's close to the same.
A lot of the, I mean, the vast majority of the landmark folds are present in every person.
So you don't have to think of this as like a variable
the structure of this to be variable.
I mean, a lot of these gyri are known and, you know, they can get very close to predicting which ones will be which ones.
Gee, I hope I got that right.
Now I'm starting to doubt it because I don't see any cerebellum in that one.
But anyway,
You know, all the brains are there.
Anyway, let's go over here.
Let's go over here and then hit play again.
So what he's showing you here is actually not a very big piece at all, right?
That's what's underneath that little coin device.
And so that would mean that essentially we're talking about a single wrinkle and then he's kind of showing it from some, I don't know, three-dimensional angle like that.
And so then you're putting electrodes down in
And remember, as you drop electrodes down, you're not going through anything or nothing.
You're going through axons, you're going through neurons, and you're puncturing neurons, and you're breaking dendrites.
And it's not possible for you to put this through this material without severing connections that exist.
It's just not.
If the immune system comes in months or years or days later and tries to interact with those dead neurons or those dead structures or the foreign material that you've put in here, then you could have inflammation at this site at any given time.
And so all of this is just ignored and assumed that it's going to go fine because it's sterile or whatever.
They're not talking about this as a useful augmentation of a healthy human, even though they are pretending that that's what their goal is.
This is like giving an mRNA talk about working on terminal cancer patients and talking about mRNA as it's the vaccine of the future.
You see, it's the same kind of exaggeration, but maybe with several more layers of bullshit.
I also think that it's important to highlight here those tiny wires that Elon mentioned.
They're a fraction of a human hair.
They're very flexible.
Intentionally so, because the brain's constantly moving and you want the electrodes to be moving with the brain, causing less of the scarring.
And it's actually impossible for a human, however talented Matthew is, to actually maneuver them.
We have a surgical robot that we built that can actually precisely target them in any three-dimensional space, X, Y, as well as Z, with micron-level precision, while avoiding vasculature, so that you don't disrupt and cause immune response from happening.
We actually have- Oh, so if you don't hit any capillaries, there will be no immune response.
Sorry, that's wrong.
There's no freaking way they have any biology to support that statement.
And then what's even stupider is that this guy is the chip designer dude.
What is he, why is he saying this?
Think about how silly this is.
This is like a, it's a sales group and they agree on the sales pitch.
So that's why they can all jump in at different times.
He's not a biologist.
What is this?
to precisely target them in any three-dimensional space, X, Y, as well as Z, with micron-level precision, while avoiding vasculature so that you don't disrupt and cause immune response from happening.
We actually have the technology to be able to place them exactly where we want them.
Yeah, it was truly amazing to see the surface of the brain after the robot had inserted all the electrodes on the first participant without
a drop of blood in sight is really quite an achievement.
I've seen an entire brain surgery where they removed a baseball-sized glioma and there was no real blood to see.
What is going on?
It is really funny what they're doing here.
Most people don't realize is that the brain appears to be somewhat undifferentiated so if you look at the cortex it looks... Here he goes he's about to tell you all he knows about the brain
Oh, gosh.
This is going to be brutal.
This is going to be like a high school junior's presentation in biology 2.
A drop of blood in sight is really quite an achievement.
Yes.
Something that probably most people don't realize is that the brain appears to be somewhat undifferentiated.
So if you look at the cortex, it looks like a whole bunch of folds that were maybe like that.
It's not obvious just looking at, say, a picture of the brain that the brain is highly differentiated.
You pretty much know exactly where the part of the brain is that controls your right hand and your left hand and your leg and that kind of thing.
So the interesting thing about this limited understanding of the brain is that there's a very big theme that runs through neuroscience, especially with regard to the neocortex.
The neocortex, again, being this wrinkled part of the brain.
The neocortex in higher animals, this folded structure is a repeated circuit.
And I actually got slapped down in 1993 by Bert Sackman, the winner of the 1991 Prize for Medicine and Physiology for his discovery or invention of the patch clamp technique with Erwin Nair.
And we had dinner and we were talking about how, what we wanted to do with our lives.
And I said that I wanted to find out the difference between what he's talking about here, the difference between the circuits of visual cortex and auditory cortex and try to, you know, record or map those circuits and see if I could see the difference in pattern that is present in a visual cortex versus
and auditory cortex.
And now, as I repeat this story, I realize how naive I sounded back then, but I was just a naive young grad student.
And he said, well, I'm gonna let you in on a little secret.
All of the neocortex circuitry is the same.
And we need to understand what is similar across all of these circuits, not what's different.
And now he didn't say it that nicely.
He said it even worse.
He just said that that's not the right question because the entire neocortex circuit is the same.
And I didn't understand how profound that was.
For a long time, I would tell that story as evidence that he didn't get it and that he didn't think that my way of wanting to investigate the brain was a very good idea.
But the more I look at it,
And the more I step back from it 20 years later after that happened, I see the point that he was trying to make, that we needed to understand how the neocortex, having a very similar circuit being used for all these disparate modalities, how can we understand that?
How can we understand the biological principle that is being, that is, that is
that is evident in the fact that there are the same layers with the same morphologies and the same arrangements of neurons and interneurons in the auditory cortex and the retrospinal cortex and the medial entorhinal cortex, even though we know when we record from these places in the brain, they have very different signaling regimes depending on the behavior of the animal.
And so this beauty
has already been very meticulously described, and our inability to penetrate it.
has already been meticulously identified by people like Burt Sackman and those people that came before him when they realized that this is a repeating circuit.
The structure function relationship must almost be identical across all of these disparate modalities.
So if we're gonna understand what the brain is doing in the neocortex, we're gonna have to understand what it's doing in the context of using the same basic palette of microcircuits.
And my idea was, well, there must be differences and they must be manifest in the structure function relationship.
Otherwise, how could these things do different jobs?
The argument that Bert Sackman was making is probably more closely related to the idea of how can we understand how these jobs could be done by the same circuit or what contribution to these different modalities could be made by the same circuit.
And then we'll finally be asking the right question and be probing these circuits in the right way.
And neurobiology is still in the infant stage of being able to ask the right questions about some of these very profound biological observations, like the one that is that all of these higher mammals have this gigantic, repeated, wrinkling circuit of layered neurons.
And they use the same circuit for auditory and
and proprioception and, and visual processing and, and its hierarchical circuits because they project to one another.
And it's a chain of things that seems to build up the information or add the information or, or integrated in stages.
And so that's the reason why a lot of these computer analogies are used in the first place because of the repeating circuitry that's evident in the anatomy of the neuro, the, the neocortex across all of these animals.
And so rather than bringing you to understand the beauty of it and see the irreducible complexity of it and all the different manifestations of it across higher creation, this guy is trying to tell you that, you know, we know all what we're doing.
We can just put these things in there and it's all really cool.
You might not know how complicated the brain is, but we sure do.
Stop lying.
appears to be somewhat undifferentiated.
So if you look at the cortex, it looks like a whole bunch of folds that were maybe like, it's not obvious, just looking at a picture of the brain, that that it's the brain is highly differentiated, that there's, you pretty much know exactly where the part of the brain is that controls your right hand and your left hand and your leg and that kind of thing, or vision, it's actually quite precisely located.
It's not some people I think look the brain like, oh, it could be it could be anywhere.
But actually, we it's brain is highly differentiated, even though it doesn't look
So he's talking to people who know nothing, I mean know nothing about the brain, right?
This is not even remotely designed for a 12th grade
Advanced biology understanding.
I know for sure.
I knew more about the brain in high school than what he's addressing right now, which is Absolutely malevolent.
It's insulting and it's gross.
Yeah Do you want to describe how we actually where like how we identify where to drill the queen?
Yeah, so we can put a patient that is considering this implant into an MRI so functional
magnetic resonance imaging machine and ask them to imagine hand movements that because of the spinal cord injury don't happen.
But just imagining those hand movements causes these areas of the brain to light up in the fMRI scanner.
Do you see?
Just imagining the movements and now you just keep imagining them and imagining them and they're just calibrating a joystick.
It's as simple as calibrating a joystick.
That's all it is.
He's moving a cursor on a screen for shit's sake.
He's not making an omelet.
So we have a pretty good idea based in fact for each individual participant which part of their brain is going to respond to imagined movements of the hand.
And so we can map those imagined movements much as we all do when moving.
It's exactly what I
just told you it is absolutely exactly what i just told you they put it where your hand movements are they tell you to imagine the hand movements and they use a stupid machine learning algorithm to decode that over many many many training sessions and then they show you him playing civilization and say see we have telepathy stop lying mouse to controlling a cursor on a screen even without the use of a mouse yeah but anyway i think it's an important point that it's not like
the part of your brain that controls your hand might be anywhere in the cortex.
This is not the case.
It's going to be in a very specific region, and it's going to be- Precision is key too.
Yeah.
The left-handed, right-handed thing in my mind too.
If you're right-handed, you want the device on the left side.
Yeah.
The left side of your brain.
Oh, but if you want it to be on the right hand, don't forget it's got to be on the left side because everything crosses.
Oh my gosh.
I mean, this is really awful.
I would be willing to bet that both of my sons already know that the left side of their brain controls the right side of their body and it's not very...
They're acting like, oh, I didn't know that.
That was sure pretty fascinating, wasn't it?
Another of the risk mitigations we're looking at in the future is that the implant has a certain size.
The depth of the bottom of the implant is actually thinner than the average human skull.
And so what we want to be able to do is control the size of the gap under the implant.
give the threat all of these problems are physical problems with interfacing with the the skull and their device all of these problems have nothing to do with the irreducible complex problem that they purport to have already solved in monkeys called blindsight holy shit stop lying
heads that travel from the implant into the brain as much slack as possible.
We didn't do this in the first participant because we didn't want to manipulate any of their tissue that we didn't absolutely have to.
In upcoming implants, our plan is to sculpt the surface of the skull very intentionally to minimize the gap under the implant such that the bottom of the implant travels perfectly flush with the normal contour of the inner side of the skull.
That will put the implant closer to the brain
will eliminate some of the tension on the threads.
And we think it will reduce some of the tendency of threads to retract.
And we actually built the tool to do that.
Yeah, this is actually a very important detail.
You really want the inner contour of the skull to be flush so that the implant, there's no, the brain doesn't want to pucker up into the gap.
That's really quite a big deal.
I mean, it's really quite a big deal.
They're really talking about the mechanical implications of making a hole in the brain and putting a plug in it.
And all these big problems they had to solve because they're engineering geniuses.
This is a lot harder than landing a rocket.
This is major league stupid.
It's major league stupid.
These people...
Minimizing the air pocket and the implant being flush with the inside contour of the skull are two very important.
The additional benefit here is that you do see some amount of stick-up, what we call stick-up, so a minor bump in the head.
What we call stick-up.
One of the big problems with the designing of this implant is stick-up.
You know, we're limited by the thickness of the skull.
Anything above that is stick-up.
And so we've got a whole team focused on reducing the stick-up.
Bye.
but this actually eliminates that even further.
Yes, really, our goal is that if you run your hand over the top of the skull, you don't feel any bump, you don't feel any device, and that even if someone was bald, you wouldn't really... Think about how much time they're spending to let you know that while we're really trying to reduce it, you won't even feel it in the next generation.
You'd notice it, and then from the inner contour of the skull, the brain, from a physical standpoint, doesn't really notice that there's a divot in the skull, because there's no divot.
Okay, another aspect of the human brain that obviously differs from any of the animals that we tested in is that the human brain is a lot bigger.
And so you may not realize that means the human brain.
One of the most spectacular cartoons I've ever seen.
They are trying to simulate to you the relative movement of the skull relative to the brain in a human versus in a macaque or a sheep or a swine.
Because I guess they measured it.
Maybe they even, you know, did a whole
Maybe they got this from implants that they did.
Maybe.
It's possible.
I don't know.
It moves quite a bit more than any of these other smaller brained creatures.
And so when we open the skull, we see the brain travel toward and away from the robot about three millimeters in total as the heart beats and the breathing takes place.
And so that movement, it adds a small challenge for the robot in precisely choosing a depth to insert each thread.
It's not an enormous challenge.
And we've already upgraded the robots.
capabilities to be able to... If that's how the human brain moves, then how would wires that are really flexible, how would that work?
So you got to put in enough slack in there so that the wire is like going like this all the time, like a little spring in that space.
What are they, what are we supposed to conceptualize there?
Or is the wire sliding up and down inside of the impaled brain?
This is so stupid.
It's just gross.
Even more precisely target depth in even a very rapidly moving brain with a high amplitude of movement.
You may think the most obvious mitigation for threads that pulled out of the brain is to insert them deeper.
We think so too.
And so we're going to broaden the range of depths at which we insert threads.
For the very first participant, we had an enormous amount of data from our animal work.
and we had very highly optimized our insertion depth to maximize the crossing of the layers of interest in the cortex with the electrodes that we're recording from.
Now that we know retraction is a possibility, we're going to insert at a variety of depths that even in several cases of differing amounts of retracting threads, we're going to have electrodes at the proper depth and with the deepest threads be able to track
how much retraction has occurred across the surface of the brain from each thread.
And so we're going to both have more threads in the right layer and have better data on how much retraction.
Now think about that.
They're talking about the relative locations of the electrodes from which they're deriving all their data.
And it doesn't sound like it matters that much.
If it moves around a little bit, if they put them here and there and everywhere, because again, they're not decoding anything.
They're just going to record the noise and correlate it with what the person is thinking.
And if they put it in the right place, there will be enough signal to noise for a machine learning algorithm to decode basic movement of a mouse.
Whoop-de-doo.
It's so dumb.
It's getting hot in here.
If you're a PCI nerd, you might know that being able to control individual Z depth or thread is not something that most neural interface devices offer.
And so now they're selling the idea that they can raise and lower individual electrodes.
And that's really cool.
I had a friend in grad school who went and spent a whole year and a half of his life designing a
a 16 electrode microdrive that would allow the researcher to lower 16 different electrodes into the hippocampus of a rat and put them wherever they wanted to and so they could measure anatomically across the entire length of the medial entorhinal cortex.
And so, that was an implant that had electrodes going into the brain.
And so, they're talking about something that this is the first time that anything is done like that.
And the Mosers had a grad student that invented one from scratch.
And they have several nature papers about that, the measurements that they gathered from that.
That's what we're going to talk about tomorrow.
so they're already talking about something that they either don't have the background to know or they're just lying because that was a while ago that was like more than 10 years ago they already have their own lab in the south of Norway now like they've they've done been there done that already and that was their grad school time like this is
What he just said is absurd.
To track how much retraction has occurred across the surface of the brain from each thread.
And so we're going to both have more threads in the right layer and have better data on how much retraction has occurred.
If you're a PCI nerd, you might know that being able to control individual Z depth per thread is not something that most neural interface devices offer.
Most neural interface devices are static.
fixed rigid array that you push in, and all the retros are on depth.
To be able to do this is actually a pretty novel part of the robot.
Yeah, the historical approach is to actually pound in a sort of bed of nails with an air hammer into the brain.
It would look crazy.
Yeah, just out of camera.
It sounds somewhat barbaric.
This is not what we do, but this is what's been done before.
It's literally just hammering in what looks like a bed of nails with the brain.
Which actually works.
It's astonishing that it actually works.
They are doing nothing different except that their wires are smaller.
It's exactly the same as any other electrode experiment.
And for them to tell you that it's different is ridiculous.
They're doing exactly the same thing.
They're just pushing wires down into the brain.
Maybe they don't hammer them.
Maybe they're very fancy how they go down.
Maybe the robot is very fancy how it goes down.
It's the same stupid stuff.
You're going to get the same stupid measurement.
And that's why he said it works.
Because this same kind of thing has worked in monkeys for a very long time.
It's very rudimentary.
It's a freaking magic trick.
That was somewhat barbaric.
This is not what we do, but this is what's been done before.
It's literally just hammering in what looks like a bed of nails to the brain, which actually works.
It's astonishing that it actually works.
Some people have manual, like DBS probes, you're just sticking in by hand.
Those are several orders of magnitude more volume of brain tissue that you're destroying compared to what we're doing.
But that deep brain simulation stuff does actually work.
It actually helps people a lot.
Yeah.
That's a great product.
I think we'll be able to do a much more finessed version of that down the road.
It's really difficult.
The Neuralink device is something that really absolutely minimizes damage to the brain, absolutely minimizes the load on the patient.
And the goal is to allow someone to live a completely normal life.
I mean, it won't even infect your hairline, which is pretty cool.
Notice that someone even has the device.
So, like I said, with the ability to control your computer and phone, that's our telepathy.
And then next device, being able to allow people to see that could not see before.
In fact, you can allow people to see Geordi La Forge in Star Trek in any, whatever.
He just said Geordi La Forge of Star Trek.
This is just a lie.
It's a lie.
It's such an awful lie.
It's just ridiculous.
It's stupid.
It's a lie.
It's just awful.
Yeah.
Infrared, ultraviolet, radar.
So I think another way of saying it is that we want to give people superpowers.
So it's not just that we're restoring your prior brain functionality, but that you actually have functionality far greater than a normal human.
That's a super big deal.
And I also think oftentimes the questions that we get a lot is, why do you have to actually go into the brain?
What if you place it on the surface or outside the skull?
Basically, the long story short, the physics of how it works, you really need to get the sensors, which are these facing in the brain, next to the source, which is as close to it as possible.
Otherwise, what you get is you get a population response and not be able to do the level of controls that we believe
Yeah, maybe a good sort of analogy would be like, if you're trying to understand what goes on in a factory, you need to go into the factory, you can't just put a stethoscope on the wall and try to figure out what's going on.
Let's try this.
Let's watch this one.
Advances in artificial intelligence are leading to medical breakthroughs once thought impossible, including devices that can actually read minds and alter our brains to help treat conditions like anxiety, Alzheimer's.
But that technology raises privacy concerns.
That's why Colorado passed a first-of-its-kind law aimed at ensuring our private thoughts remain private.
Your political reporter Shawn Boyd joins us live from the Capitol tonight.
Shawn, this is really mind-blowing even to think about.
Who has access to this technology?
Karen, everyone, believe it or not, you can buy devices on the internet right now that can, to varying degrees, decode your brainwaves.
And the technology being developed by the likes of Elon Musk, Apple, Meta, and OpenAI can change, enhance, and control your thoughts, emotions, even your memories.
It's the dawn of a new era filled with promise and peril.
you wanted to do you can move your computer with your mind and you can control it with your mind using this device if you think telepathy or mind control is the stuff of science fiction he just put that on his head and he's showing you right now how he is calibrating it and you wanted to do you can move your computer with your mind and you can control it see using this device it said right up in the corner right training look have a new era filled with promise watch and peril
Anything you wanted to do, you can move your computer with your mind and you can see right training.
It says right there.
So he's got to train it.
You see, he trains it to move, right?
He trains it to move left.
He trains it to move up and down and wallah through his skull with a plastic set of, of, of transcranial electrodes.
They can decode enough brain region, differentiate enough brain activity to tell what you mean.
Don't you see?
The distributed signal of the neocortex, as long as you just, if you just, this doesn't imply understanding.
It's a hack.
It's a neat hack because moving a mouse on a screen is not that big a deal.
You can control it with your mind using this device.
If you think telepathy or mind control is the stuff of science fiction, think again.
This is kind of like the first consumer-grade brain-computer interface that anyone can have and anyone can control their computer using this technology.
It's called neurotechnology, and neurologist Sean Pazoski at UCHealth says it's revolutionizing healthcare, enabling people who can't move or speak to do what was previously thought impossible.
I thought Elon Musk was doing that.
I thought that he was the only one who could do that because you gotta drill a hole in the brain in order to restore functionality and get people to be able to play Civilization again.
communicate with just a thought or expression.
You could use this device to move the cursor to the letter that you wanted, and then if you wanted that letter, you could just smile and give the command to enter that.
This headset, one of 30 devices you can now buy on the internet.
And then when you stop smiling and just think about it at some point, it will be trained.
You see, the only difference between these devices and what Elon Musk is doing is the computer behind it.
These devices are limited because it's a little device with probably no more than a cell phone level computer on it.
But Elon Musk is doing things a little differently.
The training program and the computer training that's learning that's happening is a computer, not the device.
And if it is the device, it's still probably a better computer than these, that's all.
And it's most likely a separate computer.
And then they put that decoding into the device.
And so the whole process of building the machine learning network that underlies that interface is probably done outside of the device.
And then it's eventually loaded into the device, specifically for you, derived from the signals of that device.
But you could outsource, or you could put that high level computing power that is used to train it, could be on your laptop, just like he's showing.
And then once the training is over with, then the code can be here.
Because the decoding is a very small thing when it comes to the limited variable set of moving a mouse around and then wanting to say click or not click.
It's not an infinite palette of actions.
It's a very limited spectrum of information and control.
So it's not all it's cracked up to be.
You get me to the stage where somebody can fly a remote control helicopter using one of these devices, you still won't be beyond two joysticks.
Do you see that?
You still won't be beyond doing two joysticks, which could be as easy as two implants or two electrode sets.
just silly.
Peer into your brain and in some cases alter it.
So it is actually modulating.
And so in some cases alter it so it is modulating this one might have some kind of magnetic signal that it does but that that is still absolute snake oil.
Stimulating your brain to help you get a better night's sleep.
The devices promise to not only improve brain function, but identify impairments.
Pazowski is using the technology at UCHealth to detect epileptic seizures as they happen.
We were never able to do that before.
This takes out all the guesswork and allows us to change medications in real time.
That probably works really well.
And again, it's not an implant.
It's just something on your skull reading the signals through your... I mean, it's amazing, right?
This is how you see through Elon's show.
It's just dumb.
What it is, what Elon's show is for is to remove the sacredness of what he's doing, to remove the reverence for what we would have, you know, a generation ago, that whole concept would have been stupid.
A generation ago, you know, it was considered kind of dumb to get a tattoo.
Certainly it was considered dumb to get a tattoo that wasn't covered by your t-shirt or your shorts.
Like why would anybody do that?
You see what I mean here?
It's been a slow roll for a couple generations to undermine our sense of what is sacred and what isn't.
To the point where we don't really see our children as sacred.
The at-home devices are impressive.
Those being used in the lab are even more so.
Our brainwaves are like encrypted signals, and using artificial intelligence, researchers have cracked the code, identifying frequencies for specific words to turn thought to text with 40% accuracy.
40% accuracy when it comes to the difference between a screwdriver and an igloo.
Holy cow.
A screwdriver and an igloo.
I mean, keep in mind what we're talking about here, right?
For specific words.
The difference between igloo and screwdriver.
That's definitely not, um, you know, what drill bit do you want?
Did you say torque wrench?
If you choose really disparate words, you know, like
I don't know, baseball cap and what, birthday cake?
I mean, I'm trying, geez.
Igloo and screwdriver was fantastic.
And we're probably talking 80, 90%.
That I just think it and AI knows what I'm thinking.
Knife and apartment, also very good.
Yes.
Not only do words have distinctive brain patterns, so do conditions like Alzheimer's, anxiety, and addiction.
Conditions researchers are working to reverse using electrical stimulation to alter the frequencies or regions of the brain where the condition originates.
The benefits are going to be off the charts.
Patients are going to have dozens of more options.
But with the benefits come risks.
It is some of the most sensitive data that you could possibly share with anyone.
Oh, so now here we are.
Now we're realizing what we're doing here.
This is just normalizing data collection.
Normalizing you as an experimental animal, normalizing observations about you being the public domain, maybe the private domain or the person who owns the patents domain.
I don't know.
They are slowly eroding our idea of sovereignty, especially our kids' idea of sovereignty, because, you know, this technology is unavoidable.
You're not gonna not wanna have one.
Once it doesn't hurt your hairline anymore, there'll be no excuse not to adopt it.
Friends companies could use to discriminate, law enforcement to interrogate, and advertisers to manipulate.
Government, too, could get into our heads and potentially- Ever since I got this implant, I can't stop going to Chick-fil-A.
alter our thoughts, emotions, and memories as the technology advances.
Nobody wants to live in a world where some of these misuses or abuses exist.
While medical research facilities are subject to private Think about the idea that one of these companies, even if their interface is kind of dumb and it doesn't look very cool on your head, at some point they can just sell all the data that they've collected to somebody else and go out of business.
And I can almost guarantee you that's exactly what will happen with a lot of these companies.
Well, we got 20,000 people to put these on and wear them all day.
So we have that data if you want it.
Imagine if they also got a COVID test from those people.
privacy laws, private companies that are amassing large caches of brain data are not.
And based on a study by the Neural Rights Foundation, two-thirds of... Hey, Rafa Justa, I know who that guy is.
Funny that he's writing that.
That's crazy.
Rafa Joost, I know that guy and he knows a lot about structure and function in the brain.
That guy actually is a guy that my PhD advisor, Heibert Mansfelder, did his last postdoc with him in New York City before he moved back to Amsterdam and then I was his first grad student.
So I definitely know who Rafa Just is.
That's funny.
...are already sharing or selling the data with third parties.
The vast majority of them also don't disclose where the data is stored, how long they keep it, who has access to it, and what happens if there's a security breach.
I wonder if any of those companies back up their servers anywhere else or even have their servers backed up unknowingly, you know?
Interesting question.
That's why Pazowski, medical director of the foundation, led the passage of a first-in-the-nation law in Colorado that includes biological or brain data in the State Privacy Act, similar to fingerprints, if the data is being used to identify people.
This is a first step, but we still have a long way to go.
and with companies and countries.
As long as you de-identify it, though, the data's fine.
Countries racing to access, analyze, and alter our brains.
Pazoski says privacy protections should be a no-brainer.
It's everything that we are.
It's everything about our thoughts, our emotions, our memories, our intentions.
The new law takes effect August 8th, but it's unclear which companies will be subject to it because, again, it only applies to those that are using the data to identify people.
It's also unclear how it will be enforced, especially against those companies that are out of the country.
Pazowski and the Neural Rights Foundation are pushing for a federal law and even a global accord.
They don't want brain data to end up like DNA data that people sent to genealogy sites only to learn that they shared or sold
it to a third party.
The privacy of our mind may be the only privacy we have left.
Whoa.
Fascinating.
So how much do these, the only privacy we have left?
Do they work?
Most of them are in the $200 to $400 range, for some are in the thousands of dollars.
Because they're marketed as wellness devices, they're not regulated by the FDA, but Pozovsky says the ones that he's tried... Whoa, nice dog!
Look at that big dog, wow!
Big ol' mastiff.
Elon Musk has developed an implantable chip that actually allows you to move a cursor, for example, with just your thoughts.
And Chad, we're also wondering, can any of these devices actually control a person's thoughts?
Not a person's, Michaelia, but they have been used to control the thoughts of mice in a lab.
All right, so much to take in.
They have been used to control mice in the lab.
You see how much ridiculous?
That is just awful.
And what I want you to see what this is evidence of is that just like they are doing with AI and computer interfaces with the brain and mind reading and mind control and that we can already do it.
And Blindsight already works in monkeys.
She said that these devices can't do it in humans yet, but we can already control the thoughts of mice.
And we cannot, we can't even read the thoughts of mice.
I mean, are you kidding me?
This is a joke.
And just like they are constructing this mythology about AI and brain interface and brain-mind interface and how they're going to be able to, if we don't do it now, the AI is going to become conscious before we can interact with it in a meaningful way, which is what Elon said a couple times in half of that video.
They have created the illusion of the pandemic.
They created this illusion by agreeing on what questions to ask in 2020 and the answers to those questions.
And these people that told us this story, they created this illusion of consensus.
The arguments on television created this illusion of consensus.
The arguments that these people engaged in created this illusion of consensus.
And it's these people that we need to see as clearly as the ones on TV if we're going to have our children escape from this.
this worst case scenario on the internet must be dispelled as the mythology that it is.
And the way to dispel it is to make them talk about what they were doing in 2020.
Where the hell were you in 2021?
Because none of them were dispelling the myth of the faith.
Instead, they were intimately involved in making sure that our children believed it, that adults didn't question it.
and didn't ask the right questions that would get them meaningful progress.
They didn't ask any questions about the fidelity of RNA in culture.
They didn't question the idea that, well, they do make copies of this RNA, and they assemble it, and when they can make DNA of it, and they could make a lot of that.
Jonathan Cooley's right about that, that they actually have this technology in spades because that's how they make venom, that's how they make antibodies, that's how they make insulin, that's how they make all this stuff.
just bacterial culture.
If they have to make it bigger, they just make several different little plasmids and then stitch them all together in the end.
They can make RNA from it if they want to.
They can electroporate the DNA right into a cell culture.
But whether they apply it to a cell culture or an animal or send it to their friends, this is not virology.
They call this virology.
It's not virology.
It's infectious clones.
And that means that they could use the industrial processes that are used to make venom or the mRNA vaccine or antibodies to make a large quantity of any sequence they wanted to.
And then PCR and sequencing would find it.
And if they made a lot of it, you'd find a very high-fidelity signal wherever you put it in.
It would just be synthetic DNA.
It would just be synthetic RNA.
It wouldn't be the spread of it.
It wouldn't be the replication of it.
It wouldn't be the loss of control of a gain-of-function version of it.
It would just be a signal that they created using synthetic DNA or RNA.
And that's indeed what this virology illusion is all about.
They create these sequences and they passage them in cell culture, and then they claim to have found them on the other end.
And that is gain of function.
That's it, nothing else.
They want you to believe this.
They created this illusion about the worst case scenario.
They created this illusion about the worst case scenario being a gain of function virus and agreed to agree on it.
They created that.
And it's all synthetic DNA.
It's all possible with synthetic DNA.
It covers up the idea that all of these illusions are created using nothing more than synthetic DNA and RNA and claiming that it's virology, claiming that it's immunology, claiming that it's vaccines, claiming it's understanding and it's not.
Just publish the papers and now pandemic potential exists and it's all lies about this stuff.
There are no viruses there, just sequences.
Because you can't make a cell do something that it doesn't already do.
So if these sequences get packaged, so be it.
Robert Malone definitely knows it.
I don't think Pierre Kory knows it.
I think Pierre Kory is just probably regrettably
participant, a regrettable participation in this illusion, this fight against these truths.
Intramuscular injection of any combination of substances with the intent of augmenting the immune system has always been dumb.
Transfection in healthy humans is criminally negligent and RNA cannot pandemic.
There are other ways to say this.
You know, weaponized piles of money got us to argue about the stuff they want us to argue about, and they're still doing it today.
That's why we don't know the truth about Ukraine, we don't know the truth about Israel, or Russia, or money, or banking, or student loans, or bankruptcy.
None of it.
Because it's all one great big weaponized pile of money illusion.
Lots of weaponized piles of money, maybe some of them are Venetian, I don't know.
Stop all transfections in humans because they are trying to eliminate the control group by any means necessary.
And we'll be back again tomorrow with a continuated version of this with some more hardcore science and more hardcore neurobiology to kind of put this into the context of how absurd it actually is.
If you like what you saw, please share the stream at stream.gigaohm.bio.
You don't need to log in.
There is no login.
You just share the link.
anybody can watch you can leave a comment if you want but but in reality the idea is to show you that it's just our archive on a website nothing else raw and available for download sharing clipping whatever you want if you want to communicate with me
The best place to do it is GigaHome.bio.
I'm also checking my private chats there now.
And if you want to support the stream, it's GigaHomeBiological.com.
There are lots of different links there.
It would be very, very much appreciated.
We need every little piece of help we can get.
One-time donation, monthly subscription, whatever you can afford would be really appreciated.
Thank you very much.
I'll see you again tomorrow.
I will check my email right now, Albert.
Thank you very much for joining me.
Olsen Page, thank you very much for all you're doing on BitChute and Rumble, or I think it's on BitChute.
Thank you very much for being in the chat, guys, and thank you very much for having the patience with me to get where we are today.
Thank you very, very, very, very much.
See you tomorrow.